# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Projects » ](../projects/projects.html.en)
[GetTor » ](../projects/gettor.html.en)

# GetTor robot

GetTor is a service that provides alternative methods to download Tor Browser,
specially for situations where access to Tor Project's official website and
mirrors is blocked. For now, the only available method is SMTP (email).

## Download Tor Browser via email

Users can communicate with GetTor robot by sending messages via email.
Currently, the best known email address to do this is gettor@torproject.org.
This should be the most current and stable GetTor robot as it is operated by
Tor Project itself.

To ask for Tor Browser, send a plaintext email (at best disable HTML mails in
your email client completely) to the GetTor robot with one of the following
options in the body of the message:

  * **windows** : If the user needs Tor Browser for Windows. 
  * **linux** : If the user needs Tor Browser for Linux. 
  * **osx** : If the user needs Tor Browser for Mac OS X. 

Options are case insensitive. If a user selects two or more options, only the
first one will be considered. After the user sends a valid option, GetTor
robot will reply with links to download Tor Browser from popular cloud
services. For now, the only cloud service supported is Dropbox.

Once the files have been downloaded users should **verify the integrity** of
Tor Browser by following the instructions listed in the [ signature
verification](https://www.torproject.org/docs/verifying-signatures.html.en)
guide. After verifying that the downloaded file is valid, users should follow
the [ install
instructions](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser.html.en#macosx)
to start using Tor Browser. A user that can't reach the Tor network after the
install process should consider using
[bridges](https://bridges.torproject.org) or [ pluggable
transports](https://www.torproject.org/docs/pluggable-transports.html.en).
These guides will be provided by the GetTor robot in the future.

## Download Tor Browser via Twitter

You can send a direct message to [@get_tor](https://twitter.com/get_tor)
account (you don't need to follow). Send the word **help** in a direct message
to learn how to interact with it.

  * [Software & Services](../projects/projects.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

