# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home Â» ](../index.html.en) [Projects Overview](../projects/projects.html.en)

# Software & Services

The Tor community of software and services aims to make your Internet
experience safer and better.

[![Tor Icon](../images/onion.jpg)](../docs/documentation.html.en)

[Tor](../docs/documentation.html.en)

Tor is free software and an open network that helps you defend against traffic
analysis, a form of network surveillance that threatens personal freedom and
privacy, confidential business activities and relationships, and state
security.

[![TorBrowser Icon](../images/icon-
TorBrowser.jpg)](../projects/torbrowser.html.en)

[Tor Browser](../projects/torbrowser.html.en)

Tor Browser contains everything you need to safely browse the Internet. This
package requires no installation. Just extract it and run.

[![Nyx Icon](../images/icon-Nyx.jpg)](https://nyx.torproject.org/)

[Nyx](../projects/nyx.html.en)

Nyx is a terminal status monitor for Tor, intended for command-line
aficionados and ssh connections. This functions much like top does for system
usage, providing real time information on Tor's resource utilization and
state.

[![](../images/onion.jpg)](https://metrics.torproject.org/)

[Metrics Portal](https://metrics.torproject.org/)

Analytics for the Tor network, including graphs of its available bandwidth and
estimated userbase. This is a great resource for researchers interested in
detailed statistics about Tor.

[![](../images/icon-Obfsproxy.jpg)](../docs/pluggable-transports.html.en)

[Pluggable Transports](../docs/pluggable-transports.html.en)

Pluggable Transports (PT) transform the Tor traffic flow between the client
and the bridge. This way, censors who monitor traffic between the client and
the bridge will see innocent-looking transformed traffic instead of the actual
Tor traffic.

[![Onionoo Icon](../images/icon-
TorStatus.jpg)](https://metrics.torproject.org/onionoo.html)

[Onionoo](https://metrics.torproject.org/onionoo.html)

Web-based protocol to learn about currently running Tor relays and bridges.

[![Orbot Icon](../images/icon-
Orbot.jpg)](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/)

[Orbot](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/)

In collaboration with [The Guardian Project](https://guardianproject.info/),
we're developing Tor on the Google Android mobile operating system. A related
application is [Orlib](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orlib/); a library
for use by any Android application to route Internet traffic through
Orbot/Tor.

[![](../images/shadow-favicon.png)](https://shadow.cs.umn.edu/)

[Shadow](https://shadow.cs.umn.edu/)

Shadow is a discrete-event network simulator that runs the real Tor software
as a plug-in. Shadow is open-source software that enables accurate, efficient,
controlled, and repeatable Tor experimentation.

[![Stem Icon](../images/icon-stem.jpg)](https://stem.torproject.org/)

[Stem](https://stem.torproject.org/)

Python library for applications and scripts that interact with Tor.

[![Tails Logo](../images/tails_logo.png)](https://tails.boum.org/)

[Tails](https://tails.boum.org/)

The Amnesic Incognito Live System is a live CD/USB distribution preconfigured
so that everything is safely routed through Tor and leaves no trace on the
local system.

[![TorBirdy Icon](../images/icon-
Torbirdy.jpg)](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/torbirdy)

[TorBirdy](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/torbirdy)

TorBirdy is Torbutton for Thunderbird and related *bird forks.

[![txtorcon Icon](../images/icon-
txtorcon.png)](https://txtorcon.readthedocs.org/)

[txtorcon](https://txtorcon.readthedocs.org/)

Python and Twisted event-based implementation of the Tor control protocol.
Unit-tests, state and configuration abstractions, documentation. On PyPI and
in Debian.

[![OONI Icon](../images/icon-OONI.png)](https://ooni.torproject.org/)

[OONI](https://ooni.torproject.org/)

The Open Observatory of Network Interference, is a global observation network
which aims is to collect high quality data using open methodologies, using
Free and Open Source Software (FL/OSS) to share observations and data about
the various types, methods, and amounts of network tampering in the world.

Also see our list of [community projects](../projects/community.html.en).

  * [Software & Services](../projects/projects.html.en)
  *     * [Tor Browser](../projects/torbrowser.html.en)
    * [Nyx](../projects/nyx.html.en)
    * [Orbot](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/)
    * [Tails](https://tails.boum.org/)
    * [TorBirdy](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/torbirdy)
    * [Onionoo](https://metrics.torproject.org/onionoo.html)
    * [Metrics Portal](https://metrics.torproject.org/)
    * [Pluggable Transports](../docs/pluggable-transports.html.en)
    * [Shadow](https://shadow.cs.umn.edu/)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

