# [Tor](index.html.en)

  * [Home](index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](donate/donate-button.html.en)

  * Tor prevents people from learning your location or browsing habits.
  * Tor is for web browsers, instant messaging clients, and more.
  * Tor is free and open source for Windows, Mac, Linux/Unix, and Android

# Anonymity Online

Protect your privacy. Defend yourself against network surveillance and traffic
analysis.

[ Download Tor](download/download-easy.html.en)

## What is Tor?

Tor is free software and an open network that helps you defend against traffic
analysis, a form of network surveillance that threatens personal freedom and
privacy, confidential business activities and relationships, and state
security.  
[Learn more about Tor »](about/overview.html.en)

## Why Anonymity Matters

Tor protects you by bouncing your communications around a distributed network
of relays run by volunteers all around the world: it prevents somebody
watching your Internet connection from learning what sites you visit, and it
prevents the sites you visit from learning your physical location.  
[Get involved with Tor »](getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)

## Our Projects

[![TorBrowser Icon](./images/icon-
TorBrowser.jpg)](projects/torbrowser.html.en)

### [Tor Browser](projects/torbrowser.html.en)

Tor Browser contains everything you need to safely browse the Internet.

|

[![Orbot Icon](./images/icon-
Orbot.jpg)](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/)

### [Orbot](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/)

Tor for Google Android devices.  
  
---|---  
  
[![Tails Logo](./images/tails_logo.png)](https://tails.boum.org/)

### [Tails](https://tails.boum.org/)

Live CD/USB operating system preconfigured to use Tor safely.

|

[![Nyx Icon](./images/icon-Nyx.jpg)](https://nyx.torproject.org/)

### [Nyx](https://nyx.torproject.org/)

Terminal (command line) application for monitoring and configuring Tor.  
  
[![Atlas Icon](./images/icon-
TorStatus.jpg)](https://metrics.torproject.org/rs.html)

### [Relay Search](https://metrics.torproject.org/rs.html)

Site providing an overview of the Tor network.

|

[![Pluggable Transports Icon](./images/icon-Obfsproxy.jpg)](docs/pluggable-
transports.html.en)

### [Pluggable Transports](docs/pluggable-transports.html.en)

Pluggable transports help you circumvent censorship.  
  
[![Stem Icon](./images/icon-stem.jpg)](https://stem.torproject.org/)

### [Stem](https://stem.torproject.org/)

Library for writing scripts and applications that interact with Tor.

|

[![OONI](./images/icon-OONI.png)](https://ooni.torproject.org/)

### [OONI](https://ooni.torproject.org/)

Global observatory monitoring for network censorship.  
  
[Learn more about our projects »](projects/projects.html.en)

[We're hiring! »](about/jobs.html.en)

  

_Recent posts are temporarily unavailable_

## Who Uses Tor?

###  [![Normal People](./images/family.jpg) Family &
Friends](about/torusers.html.en#normalusers)

People like you and your family use Tor to protect themselves, their children,
and their dignity while using the Internet.

###
[![Businesses](./images/consumers.jpg)Businesses](about/torusers.html.en#executives)

Businesses use Tor to research competition, keep business strategies
confidential, and facilitate internal accountability.

###  [![Activists &
Whistleblowers](./images/activists.jpg)Activists](about/torusers.html.en#activists)

Activists use Tor to anonymously report abuses from danger zones.
Whistleblowers use Tor to safely report on corruption.

###  [![Journalists and the
Media](./images/media.jpg)Media](about/torusers.html.en#journalist)

Journalists and the media use Tor to protect their research and sources
online.

###  [![Military and Law Enforcement](./images/military.jpg)Military & Law
Enforcement](about/torusers.html.en#military)

Militaries and law enforcement use Tor to protect their communications,
investigations, and intelligence gathering online.

![Tor](./images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](./images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

