# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en) [Board of
Directors](../about/board.html.en)

# Board of Directors

Matt Blaze

Board Chair

Matt is a professor in the computer and information science department at the
University of Pennsylvania, where he directs the Distributed Systems
Laboratory. He has been doing research on surveillance technology for over 20
years, as well as cryptography, secure systems, and public policy.

|

Linus Nordberg

Director

Linus is a longtime internet and privacy activist who has been involved with
Tor since 2009. Linus is a software developer who specializes in network
security and operating internet services. Since his start at Tor he's
developed code, run services, and advocated for the Tor Project. He's one of
the founders of the Swedish digital rights organization DFRI (Digitala Fri-
och Rättigheter) and through that involved in the European umbrella public
policy organization EDRi (European Digital Rights).  
  
---|---  
  
Cindy Cohn

Board Treasurer

Cindy is the Executive Director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF).
From 2000 to 2015 she served as EFF’s Legal Director as well as its General
Counsel. Cindy first became involved with EFF in 1993, when EFF asked her to
serve as the outside lead attorney in Bernstein v. Dept. of Justice, the
successful First Amendment challenge to the U.S. export restrictions on
cryptography. Ms. Cohn works to ensure that people around the world have the
right to access information and communicate privately and anonymously,
including mounting lawsuits against NSA spying, providing legal counsel to
computer programmers building and developing privacy and anonymity tools, and
helping to develop the Necessary and Proportionate Principles applying
international human rights standards to digital communications surveillance.

|

Megan Price

Director

Megan is Executive Director of the Human Rights Data Analysis Group, where she
designs strategies and methods for statistical analysis of human rights data
for projects in places like Guatemala, Colombia, and Syria. She is lead
statistician on a project in Guatemala in which she analyzes documents from
the National Police Archive. She is lead statistician and author on three
reports on documented deaths in Syria, commissioned by the officer of the
United Nations High Commissioner of Human Rights. Megan is on the Technical
Advisory Board for the Office of the Prosecutor at the International Criminal
Court, a Research Fellow at the Carnegie Mellon University Center for Human
Rights Science, and Human Rights Editor for the Statistical Journal of the
International Association for Official Statistics (IAOS).  
  
Gabriella Coleman

Board Clerk

Gabriella holds the Wolfe Chair in Scientific and Technological Literacy at
McGill University. Trained as an anthropologist, her scholarship explores the
intersection of the cultures of hacking and politics. She has authored two
books, Coding Freedom: The Ethics and Aesthetics of Hacking (Princeton
University Press, 2012) and Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy: The Many Faces
of Anonymous (Verso, 2014), which was named to Kirkus Reviews’ Best Books of
2014 and was awarded the Diana Forsythe Prize by the American Anthropological
Association. She has written for popular media outlets, including the New York
Times, Slate, Wired, MIT Technology Review, Huffington Post, and the Atlantic.

|

Bruce Schneier

Director

Bruce is an internationally renowned security technologist. He is the author
of 14 books as well as hundreds of articles, essays, and academic papers. His
newsletter "Crypto-Gram" and blog "Schneier on Security" are read by over
250,000 people. Bruce is a fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet and
Society at Harvard University, a Lecturer in Public Policy at the Harvard
Kennedy School, a board member of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (as well
as the Tor Project), and an advisory board member of EPIC and
VerifiedVoting.org. He is also a special advisor to IBM Security and the Chief
Technology Officer of Resilient.  
  
Ramy Raoof

Director

Ramy is a technologist and privacy and security researcher with a passion for
free/open culture. He has provided and developed digital security plans and
strategies for NGOs and members of the media, emergency response in cases of
physical threats, support on publishing sensitive materials, secure systems
for managing sensitive information, and operational plans for human rights
emergency response teams, in Egypt and the MENA region. Most recently, Ramy
has been volunteering with different NGOs and civil liberty groups in Central
& South America, to enhance their privacy and security through means of
behavioral change based on understanding surveillance and threat models in
their own contexts and environments. Among different hats, Ramy is Senior
Research Technologist at the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights (EIPR),
Research Fellow with Citizen Lab, and currently a volunteer visitor with
Fundación Acceso assisting collectives and networks in Central America around
infosec and activism. He is also an Internet Freedom Festival Fellow on
security and privacy best practices. Ramy has received multiple international
awards for his important work. Most recently, Ramy received the 2017 Heroes of
Human Rights and Communications Surveillance from Access Now.

|

Julius Mittenzwei

Director

Julius is a lawyer and internet activist with 19 years of leadership
experience as an Executive Director and entrepreneur in the publishing
industry. He is a longtime Tor advocate with a background in the Free Software
movement and member of the Chaos Computer Club (CCC), one of the oldest hacker
collectives in the world. Along with CCC, he has been running Tor nodes since
2005. As a lawyer, he has represented several Tor exit node operators accused
of abuse. He holds a PhD in Copyright Law from LMU Munich.  
  
  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  *     * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
    * [Board of Directors](../about/board.html.en)
    * [Past Contributors](../about/contributors.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

