# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

## Tor: Contact

  * Support
  * IRC
  * Twitter
  * Bug Tracker
  * Security Issues
  * Report Bad Relays
  * Email
  * Mailing Address

### Support

If you have questions about using Tor:

  1. Check our [support wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/org/teams/CommunityTeam/Support) for answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about Tor.
  2. See if your question is asked or answered on our [StackExchange page](https://tor.stackexchange.com/). If it isn't, please consider asking it there! Then everybody else can benefit from your question and the answer to it.
  3. Join the #tor irc channel, state the issue, and wait patiently for help.
  4. Read through the archives of the [mailing lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists) to see if anybody else has raised your issue recently. Note that you need to subscribe to the mailing lists before you can post.

If you find your answer, please stick around to contribute back and help
others who were once in your position.

### IRC

Tor users and developers can also be found in the following channels on
[OFTC](https://www.oftc.net/) ([join via Tor](https://www.oftc.net/Tor/)):

  * _#tor_ \- For questions about using Tor (as a client, or as an onion service). Having trouble running Tor or have a question for other Tor users? Then this is the spot for you.
  * _#tor-relays_ \- The Tor network is made of relays, if you are interested in running one yourself, join here and make sure to read this [blog post](https://blog.torproject.org/get-help-running-your-relay-our-new-advocate) on how to get help running a relay.
  * _#tor-dev_ \- Channel for people who want to do development. Discussions about Tor-related coding, protocols, and [project ideas](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en) are all welcome.
  * _#tor-project_ \- Organization discussions unrelated to software development. A great place to discuss Tor community events, outreach, translation, or website improvements.
  * _#tor-meeting_ \- The various Tor teams, like the network team, the browser team, the UX team, and the metrics team, hold periodic [publicly logged](http://meetbot.debian.net/tor-meeting/) meetings in this channel.

### Twitter

Follow us on Twitter:

  * English account: [@TorProject](https://twitter.com/TorProject)
  * Farsi (Persian) account: [@TorProject_fa](https://twitter.com/torproject_fa)

### Bug Tracker

You can report bugs other than security issues using our [bug
tracker](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor). Our [volunteer
page](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en) has convenient links to [ project-
related queries](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en#Projects).

### Security Issues

If you've found a security issue in one of our projects or in our
infrastructure, please email tor-security@lists.torproject.org. If you want to
encrypt your mail, you can get the GPG public key for the list by contacting
tor-security-sendkey@lists.torproject.org or from pool.sks-keyservers.net.
Here is the fingerprint:

>

>     gpg --fingerprint tor-security@lists.torproject.org

>     pub   4096R/1A7BF184 2017-03-13

>           Key fingerprint = 8B90 4624 C5A2 8654 E453  9BC2 E135 A8B4 1A7B
F184

>     uid                  tor-security@lists.torproject.org

>     uid                  tor-security@lists.torproject.org

>     uid                  tor-security@lists.torproject.org

>     sub   4096R/C00942E4 2017-03-13

>  

Find links to acknowledgments and our security policy in machine readable form
[here](https://www.torproject.org/.well-known/security.txt).

### Report Bad Relays

If you find a relay that you think is malicious, misconfigured, or otherwise
broken, please check out our [ wiki
page](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/doc/ReportingBadRelays)
and [blog post](https://blog.torproject.org/how-report-bad-relays) on how to
report it.

### Email

If you have Tor questions, please try to help yourself via the above support
venues. Please don't use this contact address for helpdesk or user requests --
we all get too much mail and we won't be able to help you there.

  * _frontdesk@rt.torproject.org_ is for questions and comments about Tor the non-profit organization: funding and donations, trademark questions, affiliation and coordination, major gifts, contract inquiries, etc. Please note that email is not a great approach for safe communication, so if you need privacy consider reaching us some other way. Also note that the frontdesk is currently handled by volunteers, so please be patient. 

### Mailing Address

Should you need to reach us via old-fashioned mail, our mailing address is:

The Tor Project  
217 1st Ave South #4903  
Seattle, WA 98194 USA  
  

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

