# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# New Year's Opportunity: Internet Freedom Nonprofit Seeks Experienced Chief
Financial and Grants Officer

## (Posted January 4, 2018)

Are you looking to use your advanced accounting and leadership skills to make
the world a better place? Do you care about privacy and personal freedoms? If
so, we have just the opportunity for you! The Tor Project, Inc., is a
501(c)(3) organization headquartered in Seattle that provides the technical
infrastructure for privacy protection over the Internet, helping millions of
activists, journalists and others around the world communicate securely. With
paid staff and contractors of around 35 engineers and operational support
people, plus many volunteers all over the world who contribute to our work,
the Tor Project is funded in part by government grants and contracts, as well
as by individual, foundation, and corporate donations. Our mission is “To
advance human rights and freedoms by creating and deploying free and open
anonymity and privacy technologies, supporting their unrestricted availability
and use, and furthering their scientific and popular understanding.”

We are currently seeking an Experienced Chief Financial and Grants Officer.
This senior level position, based in our Seattle headquarters, will report
directly to the Executive Director and will manage the offsite Accounting
Manager.

The Chief Financial and Grants Officer will serve as the Tor Project's senior
grants officer. Grant-related tasks include, but are not limited to:

  * Oversee grants and contracts to ensure compliance with funder requirements and progress toward annual goals.
  * Maintain positive relationships and communications with applicable government agencies.
  * Monitor and track grants through our Granthub software. 
  * Manage invoicing and billing of federal contracts to ensure full payment is received. 
  * Communicate the status of grant activities and progress toward objectives to stakeholders. 
  * Send monthly reports to front line managers indicating the current status of grants worked on by their teams.
  * Maintain files and documentation for our federal grants and contracts to ensure accuracy and compliance.

In addition, the Chief Financial and Grants Officer will serve as the Tor
Project's senior finance officer. Finance-related tasks for this position
include, but are not limited to:

  * Maintain accounting controls by preparing and recommending policies and procedures; review and upgrade as needed to ensure accuracy in accounting activities and compliance with any regulatory changes.
  * Monitor and project cash flow.
  * Provide oversight to ensure accounts payable and receivables are coded and prepared correctly. 
  * Work with outside auditors and CPA firm to furnish requisite data to ensure timely completion of annual audits and tax filings.
  * Work closely with the Executive Director to prepare budgets and financial reports. 
  * Track expenditures and income of various programs to ensure financial sustainability.
  * Send monthly reminders to staff members about filling out their timesheets and expense reports through Harvest software.

The person we seek should have the following qualities, skills, and abilities:

  * 5+ years of experience with federal grants and contract acquisition and management
  * 5+ years of experience overseeing a nonprofit organization's accounting function; other relevant experience may substitute for all or some of this required experience
  * 5+ years of experience working for or with auditors
  * Bachelor’s degree in business, finance, accounting, or a closely related field is ideal but not required; advanced graduate degree in one of the above fields is preferred; CPA license a plus
  * Working knowledge of not-for-profit accounting in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Subpart F, of the new Uniform Grant Guidance (formerly OMB Circular A-133) and appropriate Code of Federal Regulations
  * Advanced skill and experience using quickbooks, Sage (Peachtree), or some other organizational accounting program
  * Must be comfortable working in a paperless office
  * Experience creating spreadsheets to be used for predictive modelling
  * Alignment with the Tor Project’s mission and a passion for privacy and encryption technology preferred
  * Experience with FOSS (free/open-source software) preferred
  * Proficient understanding of and ability to use technology; willingness and ability to learn and use new technologies
  * Conscientious, hard working, and highly organized with superior attention to detail
  * Willingness to seek additional assistance when new challenges present themselves

The Tor Project's workforce is smart, passionate, and dedicated. Experience
working with open source communities and/or a commitment to Internet civil
liberties are added pluses for any candidate applying for this position.

Flexible salary, depending on experience. The Tor Project has a competitive
benefits package, including a generous PTO policy; 14 paid holidays per year
(including the week between Christmas and New Year's, when the office is
closed); health, vision, dental, disability, and life insurance paid in full
for employee; flexible work schedule; and occasional travel opportunities. The
Tor Project, Inc., is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.

This is a full-time position based in our friendly office in Pioneer Square,
Seattle, WA. To apply, send a cover letter and your resume to
hr@torproject.org with “Chief Financial and Grants Officer” in the subject
line. Inquiries about whether this job can be done remotely or part-time will
not be answered. No phone calls please!

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

