# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# Internet Freedom Nonprofit Seeks Executive Director

The Tor Project, Inc., is a 501(c)(3) organization headquartered in Seattle
that provides the technical infrastructure for privacy protection over the
Internet, helping millions of activists, journalists and others around the
world communicate securely. With paid staff and contractors of around 35
engineers and operational support people, plus many volunteers all over the
world who contribute to our work, the Tor Project is funded in part by
government grants and contracts, as well as by individual, foundation, and
corporate donations. Our mission is "To advance human rights and freedoms by
creating and deploying free and open anonymity and privacy technologies,
supporting their unrestricted availability and use, and furthering their
scientific and popular understanding."

We are currently seeking an Executive Director to lead the organization into
our next phase of growth and sustainability. This position can be based
anywhere, as our work is international in scope. This person must be able to
communicate regularly with the staff working on the ground at our
organizational headquarters in Seattle. This position reports directly to the
Tor Project Board of Directors.

The Executive Director sets the tone for the organization, thinks
strategically, and provides leadership and guidance in the day-to-day
operations. The Tor Project does open source software development, and the
Executive Director must be able to engage with various different stakeholders
in managing the organization. Some of the key attributes of this person should
be:

  * A strong public commitment to privacy, and a good understanding of related debates.
  * A good understanding of open source development culture, and a commitment to transparent organizations.
  * A strong commitment to creating and maintaining a healthy and safe working environment, including for remote participants.
  * A talent for consensus and community building.
  * An ability to effectively support and collaborate with diverse groups of people.
  * A willingness to share responsibility and leadership of the organization with a leadership team.
  * An enthusiasm for coaching and developing emerging leaders.
  * A natural leadership ability that encourages and empowers others to do their best work.
  * Strong written and verbal communications skills.

Some of the key requirements of this position are at least five years or
equivalent experience in each of the following areas:

  * Nonprofit fundraising, including raising money from government contracts and grants, foundations, corporations and individual contributions;
  * Talking to and working with the press, including being active and visible in promoting organizational goals and enhancing the organization’s image;
  * Solid, hands-on, budget management skills, including budget preparation, analysis, decision-making and reporting;
  * Human resource administration, including working with a leadership team and hiring and firing experience;
  * Working closely with a board of directors;
  * Non-profit operations, including managing an office and planning events, ideally remotely; and
  * Running a corporation of at least $3 million in yearly revenue, including an ability to recognize when outside professional assistance is required.

The successful candidate will have a global perspective on privacy and
censorship issues and an ability to balance "survival issues" (like next
year’s funding) with "mission issues" (like making sure we’re actually moving
our programs in a good direction). This person will have the ability to work
remotely and work with remote workers. To this end, this person must be
willing to adapt to daily use of privacy enhancing technologies used to
communicate with others. Prior experience working with software development or
internet people is a plus.

The Tor Project has made a commitment to being a safe, fair, and diverse
workplace. Our new Executive Director must be committed to these values and to
continuing to foster a welcoming work environment.

Salary is commensurate with experience and other qualifications. The Tor
Project has a competitive benefits package, including a generous PTO policy;
14 paid holidays per year (including the week between Christmas and New
Year's, when the office is closed); health, vision, dental, disability, and
life insurance paid in full for employee; flexible work schedule; and
occasional travel opportunities. The Tor Project, Inc., is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer.

This is a full-time position working either out of our office in Seattle or
remotely. To apply, send a cover letter explaining why you believe you should
be our next Executive Director, along with your resume, to
edsearch@torproject.org with "Executive Director - [Your First and Last Name]"
in the subject line. No phone calls please!

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

