# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# Community Liaison

## March 7, 2018

Are you passionate about helping people all over the world access the Internet
freely and safely? Are you an advocate who wants to help build a network of
communities that can use and improve privacy software?

The Tor Project is looking for an outgoing and engaging Community Liaison to
help advance our Global South outreach and training efforts. This will be a
full-time position, working remotely.

Your job will be to cultivate and nurture relationships with local people and
community organizations in our target countries. You will contact, engage, and
support Training Partners who represent local at-risk populations, and
collaborate on identifying specific research objectives for users in target
regions (i.e., Internet censorship circumvention tools for mobile,
anonymization for file sharing, etc.).

The ideal candidate will have the following:

  * Experience using and teaching Free Software (FOSS), particularly privacy tools like Tor, Signal, GNU/Linux, etc.
  * Community outreach and teaching experience, including organizing privacy technology workshops
  * Good understanding of threat models for users in high-risk parts of the world
  * Ability to engage diverse groups of people for workshops, including activists, human rights organizations, LGBTQ organizations, women's rights organizations, journalists, etc. 
  * Fluently speak a non-English language used in the Global South, such as Spanish or Portuguese
  * Willing and able to travel internationally
  * Largely self-directed, motivated, and organized

The Tor Project, Inc., is a 501(c)(3) organization headquartered in Seattle
that provides the technical infrastructure for privacy protection over the
Internet, helping millions of activists, journalists and others around the
world communicate securely. With paid staff and contractors of around 35
engineers and operational support people, plus many volunteers all over the
world who contribute to our work, the Tor Project is funded in part by
government grants and contracts, as well as by individual, foundation, and
corporate donations. Our mission is “To advance human rights and freedoms by
creating and deploying free and open anonymity and privacy technologies,
supporting their unrestricted availability and use, and furthering their
scientific and popular understanding.”

Salary is commensurate with experience and other qualifications. The Tor
Project has a competitive benefits package, including a generous PTO policy;
14 paid holidays per year (including the week between Christmas and New
Year's, when the office is closed); health, vision, dental, disability, and
life insurance paid in full for employee; flexible work schedule; and
occasional travel opportunities. The Tor Project, Inc., is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer.

This is a full-time position working remotely. To apply, send a cover letter
explaining why you believe you should be our Community Liaison, along with
your resume, to hr@torproject.org with “Community Liaison” in the subject
line. No phone calls please!

