# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

#  The Tor Project is looking for an Android OS developer!

## (Posted 23 Aug 2017)

August 23, 2017

The Tor Project is looking for an Android OS Developer!

As an Android OS Developer, your job will be to work closely with other
members of the development team to build and release a Tor Browser for Android
with functionality and build processes in parity with the desktop browser.
This is a full-time position.

Being a Tor developer includes triaging, diagnosing, and fixing bugs; looking
for and resolving mobile privacy issues; responding on short notice to urgent
security issues; and working collaboratively with coworkers and volunteers to
implement new features and mobile behavior changes. We also need help making
our code more maintainable, testable, and mergeable by upstream. The person in
this position will review other people's code, designs, and academic research
papers to make suggestions for improvement.

## This position will also focus on the following tasks/projects:

  * Design TorService API/integration with Fennec Mobile Android Java code. 
  * Automate a continuous build process. 
  * Make Tor Browser for Android a standalone application by porting the Orbot connection to Tor. 
  * Create a Gradle-dependent standalone Tor Service Library for Android. 
  * Coordinate uplifting of mobile patches. 

## Required Qualifications:

  * 5+ years experience with developing and testing Java/JNI, Android APIs, and library dependencies. 
  * Experience with process management services on Android. 
  * Experience with Android Software Development Kit (SDK). 
  * Experience in cross-compiling Linux/C/C++ code and libraries to mobile devices via Android Native Development Kit (NDK). 
  * Experience using network traffic capture and monitoring tools (Wireshark, PCAP). 
  * Test writing in Espresso, Robotum, JUnit, and/or comparable environment. 
  * Good interpersonal and open-source collaboration skills. 

## Desired qualifications:

  * Experience with reproducible builds on desktop or mobile. 
  * User interface and usability skills (nice, but not essential for this role). 
  * Shipped public applications with NDK features. 
  * Experience with Rust and Go on Android. 
  * Automated testing and continuous integration using cloud based services. 
  * Network knowledge and/or experience; experience investigating leaks. 

##  Other notes:

Academic degrees are great, but not required if you have the right experience!

The team coordinates via IRC, email, and bug trackers. This position may be
performed remotely, but we would be happy to provide a desk at our office in
Seattle, Washington. We also have informal shared workspace arrangements in
NYC and San Francisco.

The Tor Project, Inc., is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that provides
the technical infrastructure for privacy protection over the Internet. With
paid staff and contractors of around 30 technologists and operational support
people, plus many volunteers all over the world who contribute to our work,
the Tor Project is funded in part by government grants and contracts, as well
as by individual, foundation, and corporate donations. We only write free and
open source software, and we don't believe in software patents.

The Tor Project has a competitive benefits package, including a generous PTO
policy; 14 paid holidays per year (including the week between Christmas and
New Year's, when the office is closed); health, vision, dental, disability,
and life insurance paid in full for employee; flexible work schedule; and
occasional travel opportunities.

The Tor Project, Inc., is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.

##  To apply:

Please email a PDF of your resume/CV, and a cover letter explaining how your
qualifications and experience meet the requirements of this job description,
including why you want to work on Tor. Email should be sent to hr at
torproject.org with "OS Developer Android" in the subject line. Link to at
least one of your code samples (ideally, more than one and all of which we
will presume you are authorized to disclose). No phone calls, please!

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

