# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# Internet Freedom Nonprofit Seeks Experienced Communications Director

## (Posted May 2, 2017)

The Tor Project, Inc., a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that provides
technical infrastructure for privacy protection over the Internet, is seeking
a Communications Director to help us tell the world about our important work.
The ideal candidate will have at least five years of experience talking with
the press and leading social media campaigns. The ability to explain technical
concepts to non-technical audiences is essential.

This senior level position will report directly to the Executive Director and
will be part of the organization's leadership team. The Communications
Director will set and guide the strategy for all communications and public
relations messages to consistently articulate the Tor Project's mission. Tor
software is built by a mix of paid staff and volunteers. This job includes
working closely with this diverse, international community of people who make
Tor and related software products. This is a hands-on position for a highly
skilled communications professional with a fierce passion for technology and
social media.

##  Responsibilities:

  * Represent the Tor Project to the press. Write press releases, handle press calls, and distribute media calls to appropriate members of the Tor Project community. 
  * Train staff and community members on media and coach/prep/debrief them for specific media calls. 
  * Manage the Tor Project's social media presence. Develop the Tor Project's social media strategy and oversee staff and volunteers who contribute to our social media efforts. 
  * Publish the Tor Project's weekly newsletter, Tor Weekly News (TWN). 
  * Translate technical software releases posted to our blog so the general public can better understand the Tor Project’s work. 
  * Maintain the press section of the [torproject.org](http://torproject.org/) website. Collect, organize and post the Tor Project's press clippings to the website. Develop and distribute an organizational press kit. 
  * Manage the Tor Project's media contacts. 
  * Help to write and edit content for the Tor Project's upcoming website reorganization. Be a key member of the reorganization team. 
  * Write and update the Tor Project's one-pagers and other information pieces distributed at conferences and talks. 
  * Coordinate speaking opportunities and conferences for Tor Project staff and community members. 
  * Maintain the Tor Project's website calendar of speaking engagements. 
  * General writing and editing responsibilities as required. 

##  Qualifications:

  * Excellent verbal, written, and editing skills in English; fluency in other languages is a plus.
  * Commitment to helping Tor Project developers be regarded as respected global resources for information about open source anonymity and privacy technologies.
  * Demonstrated skill and comfort in proactively building relationships with top tier reporters and editors, and in positioning subject matter with the media to achieve high-impact placements.
  * Demonstrated experience with complex and high profile social media engagement.
  * Comfortable with highly technical topics and ability to explain them clearly and accurately to non-technical audiences.
  * Knowledge of and appreciation for the free and open source software movement.
  * Demonstrated experience with issues management, including media crisis management, and driving more advantageous coverage of the organization, its projects, and its people.
  * Strong generalist understanding of the basic mechanics of how the Internet works, as well as issues related to privacy, security, censorship, and surveillance.
  * Experience with, or willingness to learn how to use, communications and collaboration technologies such as PGP, IRC, Jitsi, WordPress, and etherpads.
  * Hard working and highly organized with superior attention to detail.
  * Highly collaborative with experience working with and as part of remote teams.
  * Self-starter who thrives on working independently with a dispersed workforce. Experience working or living outside the United States is a plus.
  * Fundraising and fundraising communications experience is a plus.
  * Willingness to travel to international meetings twice a year.
  * Excellent social skills and a sense of humor.

The successful candidate will probably hold a Bachelor's degree in journalism,
communications, marketing, public relations or a closely related field. The
ideal candidate will be energetic, unflappable and flexible, and will thrive
in a highly-technical collaborative environment.

The Tor Project's workforce is smart and committed. Experience working with
open source communities and/or a dedication to Internet civil liberties are
added pluses. The Tor Project currently has a paid and contract staff of
around 25 developers and operational support staff, plus many thousands of
volunteers who contribute to our work. The Tor Project is funded in part by
government research and development grants, and in part by individual,
foundation and corporate donations.

Flexible salary, depending on experience. The Tor Project has a competitive
benefits package, including a generous PTO policy; 13 paid holidays per year
(including the week between Christmas and New Year's, when the office is
closed); health, vision, dental, disability, and life insurance paid in full
for employee; flexible work schedule; and occasional travel opportunities.

This is a full-time position. The Tor Project’s main office is in Seattle, and
we’d be delighted to supply a desk for the Communications Director there,
however, this job can be done remotely. Knowledge of media and press contacts
within the United States is essential.

To apply, send a cover letter and your resume to
[hr@torproject.org](mailto:hr@torproject.org) with the subject "Communications
Director." Tell us why you think you're the right person for this job, and
please include links to writing samples. No phone calls please!

The Tor Project, Inc., is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

