# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# User Advocate (Mozilla Fellowship)

## March 29, 2018

As an organization dedicated to safeguarding the open internet, the Tor
Project is participating in the [Mozilla Open Web
fellow](https://advocacy.mozilla.org/en-US/open-web-fellows/overview) program
as a host. Through this fellowship, we're seeking to host a User Advocate to
bridge the gap between Tor users and Tor developers. If you're passionate
about internet freedom and improving software to make it more user-friendly,
this might be the perfect job for you.

Tor is widely considered the strongest internet privacy software, and we want
to make it the most user-friendly. Millions of people use Tor every day to
protect their privacy, safety, and freedom of expression on the internet.
Because Tor's users are distributed across the globe and have varying levels
of technical skill, we are looking for someone who can gather data from this
diverse group of people to help us make usability improvements.

Your job will be to identify common user problems: where people get stuck
setting up or using Tor, and what we can do to address those issues. After
identifying and documenting the common problems, you will coordinate with our
teams to ensure the problems are addressed.

The ideal candidate will be someone skilled at working with developers to
understand the root causes of user issues while still maintaining a broad,
user-centric view of the problems and areas where Tor can improve. Previous
experience working in a support role is a huge plus.

## The ideal candidate will have the following:

  * Experience with public interest technology and commitment to addressing issues like privacy, security, and inclusion online
  * Familiarity with the ins and outs of Tor Browser, the Tor network, and the various applications that integrate Tor's privacy and security protections
  * Exceptional patience and willingness to talk through issues and problems with people across many cultures - the more detail you can get from affected users, the better!
  * Be detail-oriented in filing comprehensive bug reports (Trac is the primary tool Tor developers use to discuss and deploy new features and bug-fixes)
  * Capability of keeping the big picture in mind without becoming overly distracted by any single area
  * Excitement for being a user advocate and for getting common user issues prioritized in the development roadmaps for each team
  * Willingness and ability to travel internationally during the term of this fellowship
  * Fluency in languages other than English is also a major plus.

The fellow will receive a $60,000 stipend, paid in monthly installments, as
well as supplements for childcare and health insurance. This is a full-time
fellowship, either working from our Seattle office or remotely.

## How to apply:

To apply, visit [Mozilla's application
page](https://foundation.mozilla.org/fellowships/apply/), create an account,
and select “Open Web.” The deadline for applications is April 20, 2018 at 5pm
EDT.

## About Tor:

The Tor Project, Inc., is a 501(c)(3) organization headquartered in Seattle
that provides the technical infrastructure for privacy protection over the
Internet, helping millions of activists, journalists, and others around the
world communicate securely. With paid staff and contractors of around 35
engineers and operational support people, plus many volunteers all over the
world who contribute to our work, our mission is to advance human rights and
freedoms by creating and deploying free and open anonymity and privacy
technologies, supporting their unrestricted availability and use, and
furthering their scientific and popular understanding.

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

