# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# Internet Freedom Nonprofit Seeks Experienced Project Manager for Network
Projects

## (Posted June 18, 2018)

The Tor Project, Inc., a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization advancing human
rights and freedoms by creating and deploying free and open source anonymity
and privacy technologies, is seeking a Project Manager to help coordinate the
projects of our Network, Metrics, and Anti-Censorship teams, as well as our
network interference observatory team known as OONI.

The ideal candidate has experience leading an open source project. Tor is
developed and maintained collaboratively through the contributions of a
diverse, global community. We work hard to choose communications tools that
encourage participation, where every contributor is heard and respected. The
person in this job must be a team player with excellent communication skills.

Our Network Projects PM understands that inter-team collaboration makes each
team stronger, and will focus on helping teams work together effectively. This
person will be responsible for ensuring a productive, healthy work environment
so all team members are able to contribute effectively and to the best of
their abilities. All teams are distributed globally across multiple time
zones, so the ability to organize and communicate via chats, email, etc., is
crucial. This person will also be the link between the teams, volunteers, and
sponsors (funders), and thus must have strong organizational skills and the
ability to communicate in writing to diverse audiences.

You will be helping the teams roadmap, identify projects for grant proposals,
manage project execution, and write progress reports to our sponsors. You are
an experienced professional who is capable of building processes and best
practices for the teams, regardless of the tools being used.

This position will work closely with other team leads and project managers.
This position reports directly to the Executive Director.

## Responsibilities:

  * Provide advice to teams where needed and point them in the right direction; help them understand what is expected of them
  * Coordinate the transfer of information to and between the teams, sponsors, and greater Tor community
  * Organize team meetings, help your teams plan their roadmaps, and show the teams how to improve their processes
  * Work with the Tor Project’s Fundraising Director and Grant Writer on grant proposals by providing them with your teams’ ideas for projects and the personnel needed for execution
  * Manage risks and issues that might occur while executing a project
  * Manage execution of roadmap and monitor the progress of your teams’ projects

## Qualifications:

  * Solid knowledge of internet technologies and security tools
  * Super organized
  * Know-how to build great processes no matter what tools teams are using
  * Great facilitator
  * Excellent written and verbal communication skills
  * Experience managing people
  * Knowledge of and experience with software development life-cycle process
  * Experience with Free and Open Source Software culture
  * Comfortable with transparency
  * Excellent attention to detail
  * Prior experience working on U.S. government grants and contracts a plus!
  * Willingness to travel to internationally at least twice a year

The Tor Project's workforce is smart and committed. Experience working with
open source communities and/or a dedication to Internet freedom are added
pluses. The Tor Project currently has a paid and contract staff of around 35
developers and operational support staff, plus many thousands of volunteers
who contribute to our work. The ideal candidate will be energetic, unflappable
and flexible, and will thrive in a highly-technical collaborative environment.

This is a full-time, hands-on position, which can be done remotely or in our
office in Seattle, WA. Flexible salary, depending on experience. The Tor
Project has a competitive benefits package, including a generous PTO policy;
14 paid holidays per year (including the week between Christmas and New
Year's, when the office is closed); health, vision, dental, disability, and
life insurance paid in full for employee; flexible work schedule; and
occasional travel opportunities.

To apply, send a cover letter and your resume to hr at torproject dot org with
the subject "Project Manager - Network." Tell us why you think you're the
right person for this job. No phone calls please!

The Tor Project, Inc., is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

