# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# The Tor Project is looking for a Browser Hacker!

## (Posted 22 Nov 2013)

Your job would be to work on the C++ patches to our [Firefox-based
browser](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/), writing new
APIs and altering functionality for privacy and security, and making
improvements to our collection of Firefox and Thunderbird addons. This would
be a contract position spanning 9-12 months, with the possibility of future
continuation. You will also be working closely with our existing browser
hackers, and with the new extension developer. If you also have [extension
developer](../about/jobs-extdev.html.en) experience, please feel free to apply
to both positions.

All candidates must:

  * Have experience in C++ and ideally Javascript. Five years of C++ experience is probably necessary for the level of expertise we want, though some of these years can be replaced with other Object Oriented Programming and/or C experience. If you meet this level of experience with C++/OOP, Javascript can be learned on the job.
  * Have a solid understanding of issues surrounding secure C++ programming and reference counted memory (at least to the level of avoiding issues).
  * Be comfortable and experienced with repeatedly diving into new, unfamiliar codebases, looking for ways to alter and augment their functionality in specific, goal-oriented ways.
  * Be at least passingly familiar with web technologies and how the web works, especially the same-origin model and web tracking.
  * Be comfortable and experienced justifying and documenting technical decisions for a public, world-wide technical audience.
  * Be comfortable working remotely.
  * Be comfortable and experienced with interacting with users and other developers online. Have thick enough skin to survive occasional trolling from either group.
  * Be comfortable with transparency: as a non-profit, everything we do is in public, including your name (or at least your business name) and yearly payment amount.

An ideal candidate would also:

  * Already be familiar with writing addons for Mozilla Firefox or other web browsers.
  * Already be familiar with writing patches for Mozilla Firefox or other web browsers.
  * Already be familiar with compiling software for the Android platform.
  * Be capable of insanely creative yet also ruthlessly pragmatic thinking.
  * Be familiar with probability, statistics, and information theory.
  * Know enough about networking to be able to visualize what HTTP 1.1 looks like on the wire while encapsulated within Tor's network protocol.
  * Have experience with open-source software development, including working with distributed teams across different time-zones containing employees and volunteers of differing skill levels over multiple mediums, including email, instant messaging, and IRC.
  * Have basic familiarity with distributed version control systems.
  * Have contributed significant chunks of code to multiple open-source projects in the past.
  * Genuinely be excited about Tor and our values.

Detailed job description:

> Being a Tor Browser Hacker includes triaging, diagnosing, and fixing bugs;
looking for and resolving web privacy issues; responding on short notice to
security issues; and working collaboratively with coworkers and volunteers on
implementing new features and web behavior changes.

>

> We'd also need help making our code more maintainable, testable, and
mergeable by upstream. Sometimes, we need to drop everything and scramble to
implement last-minute fixes, or to deploy urgent security updates. You'd also
be reviewing other people's code, designs, and academic research papers, and
looking for ways to improve upon them.

>

> For an even more detailed overview of the full breadth and depth of the work
you'd be doing, have a look at [The Design and Implementation of the Tor
Browser](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/), especially
[The Design
Requirements](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/#DesignRequirements)
section.

Other notes:

  * Tor developers can work from wherever you want, in basically any country. We have an office in Cambridge, MA if you prefer. We coordinate via IRC, email, and bug trackers.
  * Academic degrees are great, but not required if you have the right experience.
  * We only write free and open source software, and we don't believe in software patents.

How to apply:

  * Link to a sample of code you've written in the past that you're allowed to show us.
  * Provide a CV explaining your background, experience, skills, and other relevant qualifications.
  * List some people who can tell us more about you: these references could be employers or coworkers, open source projects, etc.
  * Email the above to jobs at torproject.org, specifying the "Browser Hacker" position.

About the company:  
The Tor Project is a US 501(c)(3) non-profit dedicated to research,
development, and education about online anonymity and privacy. The Tor
network's 3000 volunteer relays carry 16 Gbps for upwards of half a million
daily users, including ordinary citizens who want protection from identity
theft and prying corporations, corporations who want to look at a competitor's
website in private, people around the world whose Internet connections are
censored, and even governments and law enforcement. Tor has a staff of 14 paid
developers, researchers, and advocates, plus many dozen volunteers who help
out on a daily basis. Tor is funded in part by government research and
development grants, and in part by individual and corporate donations.

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

