# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# The Tor Project is looking for support assistants and translators!

# Note: we've filled this position for now, but we hope to be looking for more
support assistants and translators in the future.

Your job is to handle support requests via our ticketing system and our new
Q&A; website, as well as make sure translations for software and documentation
are up to date. This is a part-time contractor position starting in Q4 2012
and renewing quarterly.

We are looking for candidates who are fluent in one of Arabic, French,
Mandarin, Burmese, Vietnamese, Spanish, and English. All must be fluent in
English.

All candidates must:

  * Be comfortable and experienced with interacting with users and developers online.
  * Be comfortable and experienced with translating technical documentation or explaining technical issues to users.
  * Be comfortable working remotely.
  * Be comfortable with transparency: as a non-profit, everything we do is in public, including your name (or at least your business name) and pay rate.

An ideal candidate would also:

  * Be familiar with using Tor.
  * Be familiar with translating our software and documentation or providing support to Tor users.
  * Have basic familiarity with Trac, Request Tracker, or Transifex.
  * Genuinely be excited about Tor and our values.
  * Have experience with open-source software projects, including working with distributed teams across different time-zones containing employees and volunteers of differing skill levels over multiple mediums, including email, instant messaging, and IRC.

Other notes:

  * Tor developers don't have an office; you can work from wherever you want, in basically any country. You'll need to be comfortable in this environment! We coordinate via IRC, email, and bug trackers.
  * Academic degrees are great, but not required if you have the right experience.

How to apply:

  * Tell us about your background, experience, skills, and other relevant qualifications.
  * List some people who can tell us more about you: these references could be employers or coworkers, open source projects, etc.
  * Email the above to jobs at torproject.org, specifying the "Support assistants/translators" position.

About the company:  
  
The Tor Project is a US 501(c)(3) non-profit dedicated to research,
development, and education about online anonymity and privacy. The Tor
network's 3000 volunteer relays carry 16 Gbps for upwards of half a million
daily users, including ordinary citizens who want protection from identity
theft and prying corporations, corporations who want to look at a competitor's
website in private, people around the world whose Internet connections are
censored, and even governments and law enforcement. Tor has a staff of 14 paid
developers, researchers, and advocates, plus many dozen volunteers who help
out on a daily basis. Tor is funded in part by government research and
development grants, and in part by individual and corporate donations.

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

