# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# Internet Freedom Nonprofit Seeks Experienced Bookkeeper/Payroll Specialist

## (Posted July 31, 2018)

The Tor Project, Inc., a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization advancing human
rights and freedoms by creating and deploying free and open source anonymity
and privacy technologies, is seeking an experienced non-profit QuickBooks
Bookkeeper/Payroll Specialist.

The ideal candidate will have at least five years of experience in bookkeeping
for non-profit organizations, as well as multiple years of experience in
domestic and international payroll implementation and processing. This
position reports to our CFO and will work closely with the Grants Manager.

## Tasks include, but are not limited to:

  * Processing accounts payable and receivable
  * Reconciling bank accounts and credit card accounts
  * Reconciling expense reports, processing reimbursements, and tracking receipts
  * Processing domestic and foreign payrolls using multiple payroll platforms, including compliance with international, federal, and state requirements
  * Onboarding employees into the payroll systems
  * Integrating data from multiple software platforms
  * Assisting in the preparation of materials for annual 990 tax returns and audit
  * Tracking 1099 vendors and creating annual 1099s
  * Preparing annual 401K census reports
  * Creating general ledger entries
  * Assisting in the preparation of workers compensation audits
  * Willingness to do other miscellaneous bookkeeping-related tasks as needed

## The person we seek should have the following qualities, skills, and
abilities:

  * At least 5+ years non-profit bookkeeping experience; Bachelor’s degree preferred
  * Highly competent in QuickBooks
  * Advanced working knowledge of Excel spreadsheets, specifically including complex formulas
  * Must be comfortable working in a paperless office
  * Proficient understanding of and ability to use technology; willingness and ability to learn and use new technologies
  * Conscientious, hard working, and highly organized with superior attention to detail
  * Must be a self-starter who thrives on working independently but who is also comfortable helping other staff members
  * Must be comfortable asking staff members for information, such as expense reports and required reporting data
  * Willingness to seek additional assistance when new challenges present themselves
  * Willingness to travel to international meetings at least twice a year

The Tor Project's workforce is smart, passionate, and dedicated. Experience
working with open source communities and/or a commitment to Internet civil
liberties are added pluses for any candidate applying for this position.

Flexible salary, depending on experience. The Tor Project has a competitive
benefits package, including a generous PTO policy; 14 paid holidays per year
(including the week between Christmas and New Year's, when the office is
closed); health, vision, dental, disability, and life insurance paid in full
for employee; and flexible work schedule.

This is a full-time, hands-on position, which can be done remotely or in our
office in Seattle, WA. To apply, send a cover letter and your resume to job-
bookkeeper at torproject dot org with “Bookkeeper/Payroll Specialist” in the
subject line. Tell us why you think you’re the right person for this job and
why you want to work at Tor Project. No phone calls please!

The Tor Project, Inc., is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

