# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# Internet Freedom Nonprofit Seeks Grant Writer

## (Posted July 31, 2018)

The Tor Project, Inc., a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that provides
technical infrastructure for privacy protection over the Internet, is seeking
a strong grant writer to help us develop and write winning grant proposals
designed to secure funding from public institutions, private foundations,
corporations and other grant-making entities. The ideal candidate will be
familiar with issues involving high-tech freedom and can make a compelling
case about why our work is so important to current and potential funders. This
person must be able to write clearly and provide context for the Tor Project’s
complicated technology and activism projects. The ability to explain technical
concepts to non-technical audiences is essential.

The grant writer is responsible for researching grant opportunities, sending
out letters of inquiry and proposals, keeping track of dates and deadlines,
and submitting reports at the end of the grant periods. The Tor Project
consists of several teams that each own multiple sub-projects with different
needs and priorities. The grant writer will need to build a grant proposal
pipeline by organizing our ideas and needs into a database that can be
accessed as opportunities present themselves while coordinating prioritization
with our leadership team.

This person is also responsible for additional fundraising writing projects
that might come up, such as updating the "one-pagers" we distribute at
conferences. The Tor Project works on Internet freedom issues, and in many
ways our grant proposals and reports are more like activism pieces than
traditional pleas for funding, so a background in writing about these issues
would be ideal.

## Qualifications:

  * At least 3 years of grant writing experience with private foundations, federal government contracts, and corporations.
  * Must be a strong writer with proven ability to create clear, structured, articulate, and persuasive proposals.
  * Comfortable with highly technical topics and able to explain them clearly and accurately to non-technical audiences.
  * Knowledge of and appreciation for the free and open source software movement.
  * Strong generalist understanding of the basic mechanics of how the Internet works, as well as issues related to privacy, security, censorship, and surveillance.
  * Experience with, or willingness to learn how to use, communications and collaboration technologies such as PGP, IRC, Jitsi, WordPress, and etherpads.
  * Hard-working and highly organized with superior attention to detail.
  * Highly collaborative with experience working with and as part of remote teams.
  * Self-starter who thrives on working independently with a dispersed workforce.
  * Experience working or living outside the United States is a plus.
  * Willingness to travel to international meetings twice a year.
  * Excellent social skills and a sense of humor.

The ideal candidate will be energetic, unflappable and flexible, and will
thrive in a highly-technical collaborative environment.

The Tor Project's workforce is smart and committed. Experience working with
open source communities and/or a dedication to Internet freedom are added
pluses. The Tor Project currently has a paid and contract staff of around 35
developers and operational support staff, plus many thousands of volunteers
who contribute to our work. The Tor Project is funded in part by government
research and development grants, and in part by individual, foundation and
corporate donations.

Flexible salary, depending on experience. The Tor Project has a competitive
benefits package, including a generous PTO policy; 14 paid holidays per year
(including the week between Christmas and New Year's, when the office is
closed); health, vision, dental, disability, and life insurance paid in full
for employee; flexible work schedule; and occasional travel opportunities.

This is a full-time position. The Tor Project’s main office is in Seattle, and
we’d be delighted to supply a desk for this position there, however, this job
can be done remotely.

To apply, send a cover letter and your resume to job-grantwriter at torproject
dot org with the subject “Grant Writer." Tell us why you think you're the
right person for this job, why you want to work at Tor Project, and please
include links to writing samples. No phone calls please!

The Tor Project, Inc., is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

