# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# The Tor Project is looking for a pluggable transport developer!

This job is for the development and maintenance of the [flash
proxy](https://crypto.stanford.edu/flashproxy/) circumvention system, with a
focus on deployment and getting tools in the hands of users. If it goes well,
we might have you branch out into improving usability and deployability of
other Tor pluggable transports.

Applicants must be familiar with Python, JavaScript, and web technologies,
particularly WebSocket. You will do usability testing and be in charge of
producing binary packages of client software for GNU/Linux, Windows, and OS X.
The system's supporting infrastructure is already in place, but may require
changes depending on the future development of the client programs. There also
is the potential for the development and implementation of new covert
rendezvous methods that may have broader use outside the flash proxy system.

You will be assisted and mentored by David Fifield, the primary developer of
the flash proxy software and co-author of its [research
paper](https://crypto.stanford.edu/flashproxy/flashproxy.pdf), and all-around
good guy.

This link will display open flash proxy tickets, giving an idea of the tasks
we want done.

> [Open Flashproxy
tickets](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/query?status=accepted&status=assigned&status=needs_information&status=needs_review&status=needs_revision&status=new&status=reopened&component=Flashproxy&order=priority)

All candidates must:

  * Know Python and JavaScript. At least two years of experience, or less if you have a few years' experience with other programming languages. 
  * Have experience in packaging software. In particular, it is likely that you will need to use py2exe to make Windows packages, and you should know how to use makefiles. 
  * Be self-directed: The best candidates can solve problems on their own but also know when to ask for help. Communication with other developers will happen over email, instant messaging, and IRC. 

An ideal candidate would also:

  * Know about Tor [pluggable transports](../docs/pluggable-transports.html.en) and their [specification](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torspec.git/tree/pt-spec.txt). 
  * Have run the [sample commands in the README](https://gitweb.torproject.org/flashproxy.git/tree/README), and made notes about the process. One of your early tasks will be to do such testing so that the packages you make will be effectively usable. 
  * Have an idea of real-world censorship regimes and the threat model faced by circumvention tools. 
  * Have basic familiarity with distributed version control systems. 

Other notes:

  * Tor developers don't have an office; you can work from wherever you want, in basically any country. You'll need to be comfortable in this environment! We coordinate via IRC, email, and bug trackers.
  * Academic degrees are great, but not required if you have the right experience.
  * We only write free and open source software, and we don't believe in software patents.

How to apply:

  * Link to a sample of code you've written in the past that you're allowed to show us.
  * Provide a CV explaining your background, experience, skills, and other relevant qualifications.
  * List some people who can tell us more about you: these references could be employers or coworkers, open source projects, etc.
  * Email the above to jobs at torproject.org, specifying the "flash proxy" position.

About the company:  
The Tor Project is a US 501(c)(3) non-profit dedicated to research,
development, and education about online anonymity and privacy. The Tor
network's 3000 volunteer relays carry 16 Gbps for upwards of half a million
daily users, including ordinary citizens who want protection from identity
theft and prying corporations, corporations who want to look at a competitor's
website in private, people around the world whose Internet connections are
censored, and even governments and law enforcement. Tor has a staff of 14 paid
developers, researchers, and advocates, plus many dozen volunteers who help
out on a daily basis. Tor is funded in part by government research and
development grants, and in part by individual and corporate donations.

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

