# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# The Tor Project is looking for a Firefox/Thunderbird Extension Developer!

## (Posted 22 Nov 2013)

Your job would be to work on [Tor
Birdy](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torbirdy.git),
[Torbutton](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torbutton.git), [HTTPS-
Everywhere](https://gitweb.torproject.org/https-everywhere.git), and [Tor
Launcher](https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor-launcher.git), and the UI for an
[OTR](http://www.cypherpunks.ca/otr/) implementation for
[InstantBird](https://www.instantbird.org). This is a contractor position, and
may involve working with one or more existing contractors on these projects.
You will also be working closely with the new and existing [browser
hacker](../about/jobs-browserhacker.html.en) positions. If you also have
direct C++ hacking experience, feel free to apply to both positions.

All candidates must:

  * Have experience in Javascript, XUL, and HTML. You must have written code for at least one Firefox, Thunderbird, or Google Chrome browser addon.
  * Have a solid understanding of issues surrounding secure web and browser addon programming.
  * Be comfortable and experienced with repeatedly diving into new, unfamiliar codebases, looking for ways to alter and augment their functionality in specific, goal-oriented ways.
  * Have a knack for creating clean UI layouts and alterations, especially in XML/XUL.
  * Be familiar with web technologies and how the web works, especially the same-origin model and web tracking.
  * Be comfortable and experienced justifying and documenting technical decisions for a public, world-wide technical audience.
  * Be comfortable working remotely.
  * Be comfortable and experienced with interacting with users and other developers online. Have thick enough skin to survive occasional trolling from either group.
  * Be comfortable with transparency: as a non-profit, everything we do is in public, including your name (or at least your business name) and yearly payment amount.

An ideal candidate would also:

  * Already be familiar with writing addons for Mozilla Firefox or other web browsers.
  * Already be familiar with writing patches for Mozilla Firefox or other web browsers.
  * Be capable of insanely creative yet also ruthlessly pragmatic thinking.
  * Have experience with open-source software development, including working with distributed teams across different time-zones containing employees and volunteers of differing skill levels over multiple mediums, including email, instant messaging, and IRC.
  * Have basic familiarity with distributed version control systems.
  * Have contributed significant chunks of code to multiple open-source projects in the past.
  * Genuinely be excited about Tor and our values.

Detailed job description:

> Your primary tasks will include writing patches and UI improvements for [Tor
Birdy](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torbirdy.git),
[Torbutton](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torbutton.git), [HTTPS-
Everywhere](https://gitweb.torproject.org/https-everywhere.git), and [Tor
Launcher](https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor-launcher.git). These improvements
will primarily revolve around improving usability, Tor configuration, and
security for our users.

>

> We also need an extension for [InstantBird](https://www.instantbird.org) to
implement an interface for [OTR encryption](http://www.cypherpunks.ca/otr/) to
provide secure instant messaging using an existing OTR library.

>

> For an even more detailed overview of the full breadth and depth of the work
you'd be doing, have a look at [The Design and Implementation of the Tor
Browser](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/), especially
[The Design
Requirements](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/#DesignRequirements)
section.

Other notes:

  * Tor developers can work from wherever you want, in basically any country. We have an office in Cambridge, MA if you prefer. We coordinate via IRC, email, and bug trackers.
  * Academic degrees are great, but not required if you have the right experience.
  * We only write free and open source software, and we don't believe in software patents.

How to apply:

  * Link to a sample of code you've written in the past that you're allowed to show us.
  * Provide a CV explaining your background, experience, skills, and other relevant qualifications.
  * List some people who can tell us more about you: these references could be employers or coworkers, open source projects, etc.
  * Email the above to jobs at torproject.org, specifying the "Extension Developer" position.

About the company:  
The Tor Project is a US 501(c)(3) non-profit dedicated to research,
development, and education about online anonymity and privacy. The Tor
network's 3000 volunteer relays carry 16 Gbps for upwards of half a million
daily users, including ordinary citizens who want protection from identity
theft and prying corporations, corporations who want to look at a competitor's
website in private, people around the world whose Internet connections are
censored, and even governments and law enforcement. Tor has a staff of 14 paid
developers, researchers, and advocates, plus many dozen volunteers who help
out on a daily basis. Tor is funded in part by government research and
development grants, and in part by individual and corporate donations.

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

