# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [About » ](../about/overview.html.en)
[Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)

# Experienced Writer/Editor Sought for Internet Freedom Nonprofit

The Tor Project, Inc., a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that provides
technical infrastructure for privacy protection over the Internet, is seeking
a strong writer/editor to help us tell the world about our important work. The
ideal candidate will be familiar with issues involving high tech freedom and
can make a compelling case about why our work is so important to current and
potential funders. This person must be able to write clearly and provide
context for the Tor Project’s complicated technology and activism projects.
The ability to explain technical concepts to non-technical audiences is
essential.

The writer/editor is responsible for researching grant opportunities, sending
out letters of inquiry and proposals to foundations, keeping track of dates
and deadlines, and submitting reports at the end of the grant periods. The Tor
Project consists of six teams that each own multiple sub-projects with
different needs and priorities. The writer/editor will need to build a grant
proposal pipeline by organizing our ideas and needs into a database that can
be accessed as opportunities present themselves while coordinating
prioritization with our leadership team.

This person is also responsible for additional writing and editing related to
other development functions, such as updating the "one-pagers" we distribute
at conferences, editing membership emails that go out to our constituents, and
writing our annual report. The Tor Project works on Internet freedom issues,
and in many ways, our grant proposals and reports are more like activism
pieces than traditional pleas for funding, so a background in writing about
these issues would be ideal.

## Qualifications:

  * Excellent verbal, written, and editing skills in English; fluency in other languages is a plus.
  * Comfortable with highly technical topics and ability to explain them clearly and accurately to non-technical audiences.
  * Knowledge of and appreciation for the free and open source software movement.
  * Strong generalist understanding of the basic mechanics of how the Internet works, as well as issues related to privacy, security, censorship, and surveillance.
  * Experience with, or willingness to learn how to use, communications and collaboration technologies such as PGP, IRC, Jitsi, WordPress, and etherpads.
  * Hard working and highly organized with superior attention to detail.
  * Highly collaborative with experience working with and as part of remote teams.
  * Self-starter who thrives on working independently with a dispersed workforce.
  * Experience working or living outside the United States is a plus.
  * Fundraising and fundraising communications experience is a plus.
  * Willingness to travel to international meetings twice a year.
  * Excellent social skills and a sense of humor.

The ideal candidate will be energetic, unflappable and flexible, and will
thrive in a highly-technical collaborative environment.

The Tor Project's workforce is smart and committed. Experience working with
open source communities and/or a dedication to Internet freedom are added
pluses. The Tor Project currently has a paid and contract staff of around 25
developers and operational support staff, plus many thousands of volunteers
who contribute to our work. The Tor Project is funded in part by government
research and development grants, and in part by individual, foundation and
corporate donations.

Flexible salary, depending on experience. The Tor Project has a competitive
benefits package, including a generous PTO policy; 13 paid holidays per year
(including the week between Christmas and New Year's, when the office is
closed); health, vision, dental, disability, and life insurance paid in full
for employee; flexible work schedule; and occasional travel opportunities.

This is a full-time position. The Tor Project’s main office is in Seattle, and
we’d be delighted to supply a desk for this position there, however, this job
can be done remotely.

To apply, send a cover letter and your resume to
[hr@torproject.org](mailto:​hr@torproject.org) with the subject
"Writer/Editor." Tell us why you think you're the right person for this job,
and please include links to writing samples. No phone calls please!

The Tor Project, Inc., is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.

(Updated 4 April 2017.)

  * [Tor Overview](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Jobs](../about/jobs.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Financial Reports](../about/financials.html.en)
  * [Projects](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

