# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

## Response template for Tor relay operator to ISP

* * *

Written by the Electronic Frontier Foundation ([EFF](https://www.eff.org)).
Last updated May 31, 2011.

Note to Tor relay operators: In this litigious era, anyone providing routing
services may face copyright complaints for transmitted content. Fortunately,
the Digital Millennium Copyright Act safe harbors should provide protections
from many of them both to you and to your upstream provider. If your Internet
host forwards a DMCA copyright complaint to you, you can use this template to
write a response, though you will need to customize it to your situation.
Please also ensure all the statements are true for you. (The Tor Project has
an [abuse collection of
templates](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/TheOnionRouter/TorAbuseTemplates)
to help you respond to other types of abuse complaints, too.) Before sending
any response to your ISP, you may want to seek the advice of an attorney
licensed to practice in your jurisdiction.

This template letter is for informational purposes only and does not
constitute legal advice. Whether and how you should respond when you or your
ISP has received a DMCA notice will turn on the particular facts of your
situation. This template is intended as a starting point, but you should
tailor it to your own circumstances. In addition, it's up to you to comply
with your ISP's terms of service. If you're not comfortable including so much
legal explanation, feel free to invite the ISP to contact EFF for a fuller
discussion.

If you do not believe the safe harbors apply to your particular situation,
don't use this template as a basis for your response. Specific information
about safe harbor qualification for "transitory digital network
communications" is provided on the Chilling Effects website
[here](https://www.chillingeffects.org/dmca512/faq.cgi#QID586) and also in the
template, below.

Also, if you received this document from anywhere other than the EFF web site
or [../eff/tor-dmca-response.html.en](../eff/tor-dmca-response.html.en
"../eff/tor-dmca-response.html.en"), it may be out of date. Follow the link to
get the latest version.

> Dear [ISP]:

>

> Thank you for forwarding me the notice you received from [copyright
claimant] regarding [content]. I would like to assure you that I am not
hosting the claimed infringing materials, and furthermore, the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act's ("DMCA") safe harbors likely protect you from
liability arising from this complaint. The notice is likely based upon
misunderstandings about the law and about some of the software I run.

>

> As you know, the DMCA creates four "safe harbors" for service providers to
protect them from copyright liability for the acts of their users, when the
ISPs fulfill certain requirements. (17 U.S.C. ยง 512) The DMCA's requirements
vary depending on the ISP's role. You may be familiar with the "notice and
takedown" provisions of section 512(c) of the DMCA; however, those do not
apply when an ISP merely acts as a conduit. Instead, the "conduit" safe harbor
of section 512(a) of the DMCA has different and less burdensome eligibility
requirements, as the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals held in RIAA v. Verizon
(see [
https://www.eff.org/sites/default/files/filenode/RIAA_v_Verizon/20030121-riaa-
v-verizon-
order.pdf](https://www.eff.org/sites/default/files/filenode/RIAA_v_Verizon/20030121-riaa-
v-verizon-order.pdf)) and the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals confirmed in
RIAA v. Charter (see <https://w2.eff.org/IP/P2P/Charter/033802P.pdf>).

>

> Under DMCA 512(a), service providers like you are typically protected from
damages for copyright infringement claims if you also maintain "a policy that
provides for termination in appropriate circumstances of subscribers and
account holders of the service provider's system or network who are repeat
infringers." If you have and implement such a policy, and you otherwise
qualify for the safe harbor, you should be free from fear of copyright
damages.

>

> As for what makes a reasonable policy, as the law says, it's one that
terminates subscribers who are repeat infringers. The notification you
received is certainly not proof of the "repeat infringement" that is required
under the law before you need to terminate my account. In fact, it's not even
proof of any copyright infringement; a notice claiming infringement is not the
same as a determination of infringement. I have not infringed any copyrights
and do not intend to do so. Therefore, you should continue to be protected
under the DMCA 512(a) safe harbor without taking any further action.

>

> You may be curious about what prompted the faulty notice. It was likely
triggered by a program I run called Tor. Tor is network software that helps
users to enhance their privacy, security, and safety online. It does not host
any content. Rather, it is part of a network of nodes on the Internet that
simply pass packets among themselves before sending them to their
destinations, just as any Internet intermediary does. The difference is that
Tor tunnels the connections such that no hop can learn both the source and
destination of the packets, giving users protection from nefarious snooping on
network traffic. The result is that, unlike most other Internet traffic, the
final IP address that the recipient receives is not the IP address of the
sender. Tor protects users against hazards such as harassment, spam, and
identity theft. Initial development of Tor, including deployment of a public-
use Tor network, was a project of the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, with
funding from ONR and DARPA. (For more on Tor, see
<https://www.torproject.org/>.) I hope, as an organization committed to
protecting the privacy of its customers, you'll agree that this is a valuable
technology.

>

> Thank you for working with me on this matter. As a loyal subscriber, I
appreciate your notifying me of this issue and hope that the protections of
DMCA 512 put any concerns you may have to rest. If not, please contact me with
any further questions.

>

> Very truly yours,  
>  Your customer, [User]

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

