# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Press » ](../press/press.html.en) [Tor Project
Announces Three-Year Development Roadmap](../press/2008-12-19-roadmap-press-
release.html.en)

## FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

## **THE TOR PROJECT ANNOUNCES THREE-YEAR DEVELOPMENT ROADMAP**

**DEDHAM, MA** \- The Tor Project has published its [three year development
roadmap](../press/presskit/2008-12-19-roadmap-full.pdf), focused on providing
anti-censorship tools and services for the advancement of Internet freedom in
closed societies.

Tor's tools and technologies are already used by hundreds of thousands of
people to protect their activities online. These users include journalists and
human rights workers in politically rigid countries communicating with
whistleblowers and dissidents. Law enforcement officers on Internet sting
operations stay anonymous with Tor, as do people wanting to post socially
sensitive information in chat rooms, like rape or abuse survivors and those
with illnesses. The Tor network also provides protection for people looking
for another layer of privacy from the millions of websites and ISPs bent on
collecting private information and tracking their moves online.

While Tor's original goal was to provide this important anonymity, many people
around the world use Tor to get around Internet censorship, as well. [Human
Rights Watch](http://www.hrw.org/) and [Global Voices
Online](http://globalvoicesonline.org/) have both recommended Tor as a tool to
circumvent censorship regimes in oppressive nations. The roadmap is focused on
providing anti-censorship tools and services for the advancement of Internet
freedom in closed societies.

"If your Internet provider can't see what sites you're looking at, that also
means they can't prevent you from reaching sites they don't want you to see,"
said Roger Dingledine, Tor Project Leader. "This new roadmap with support from
the larger community will let us make Tor even better at fighting censorship.
With three years of funding, we can tackle larger problems than before, and we
can focus on making sure that Tor can grow to handle all the people who want
to use it."

Tor welcomes additional sponsors to join [current
sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en); such as the Broadcasting Board of
Governors, the NLnet Foundation, and hundreds of individual donors. While
existing funders are enough to get the items on the roadmap started, an
additional $2.1 million over the next three years will turn the roadmap into
usable tools.

## ABOUT THE TOR PROJECT

Based in Dedham, MA, The Tor Project develops free and open-source software
that provides online anonymity to the everyday Internet user. Tor was born out
of a collaboration with the U.S. Naval Research Lab starting in 2001, and it
became an official U.S. 501(c)(3) non-profit in 2006. The Tor Project now
works with many individuals, NGOs, law enforcement agencies, and businesses
globally to help them protect their anonymity online.

In addition to its efforts developing and maintaining the Tor anonymity
software and the Tor network, The Tor Project also helps to lead the research
community in understanding how to build and measure scalable and secure
anonymity networks. The Tor developers publish several new research papers
each year in major academic security conferences, and just about every major
security conference these days includes a Tor-related paper.

The "Onion Logo" and "Tor" wordmark are registered trademarks of The Tor
Project, Inc.

Contact: Andrew Lewman

Tel: +1-781-948-1982

Email: execdir@torproject.org

[Website: Tor Project](https://www.torproject.org/)

  * [Tor Media and Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Tor Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org/)
  * [Tor Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/)

## Press Contact

**Tor Press Team**  
press at torproject dot org  

  

**Please Note:** If you need technical help with Tor, please use one of our
[support options](../about/contact.html.en#support). This address is for press
inquiries only.

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

