# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Press » ](../press/press.html.en) [Tor Project
Launches Performance Roadmap and Campaign](../press/2009-03-12-performance-
roadmap-press-release.html.en)

## FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

## **TOR PROJECT LAUNCHES PERFORMANCE ROADMAP AND CAMPAIGN**

**DEDHAM, MA** -The Tor Project has [launched a
roadmap](../press/presskit/2009-03-11-performance.pdf) for dramatically
improving the performance of the public Tor network over the next year. A
combination of existing funding and a needed $1 million over the next 12
months will ensure success. This campaign is a direct result of the recently
published [3-Year Development Roadmap](../press/2008-12-19-roadmap-press-
release.html.en). The roadmap incorporates research and actions from a number
of sources which define the next steps for improving performance of the public
Tor network. The most requested feature by users of the public Tor network is
to increase performance while keeping strong anonymity intact.

As Tor's user base has grown, the performance of the Tor network has suffered.
Over the past few years, Tor's funding (and thus the development effort) has
focused on usability and blocking-resistance. We've come up with a portable
self-contained Windows bundle; deployed tools to handle the upcoming
censorship arms race; further developed supporting applications like Vidalia,
Torbutton, and Thandy; made it easier for users to be relays by adding better
rate limiting and an easy graphical interface with uPnP support; developed an
effective translation and localization team and infrastructure; and spread
understanding of Tor in a safe word-of-mouth way that stayed mostly under the
radar of censors. All of these successess have contributed to the growing user
base and increased stress on the public Tor network.

Tor's tools and technologies are already used by hundreds of thousands of
people to protect their activities online. These users include journalists and
human rights workers in politically rigid countries communicating with
whistleblowers and dissidents. Law enforcement officers on Internet sting
operations stay anonymous with Tor, as do people wanting to post socially
sensitive information in chat rooms, like rape or abuse survivors and those
with illnesses. The Tor network also provides protection for people looking
for another layer of privacy from the millions of websites and ISPs bent on
collecting private information and tracking their moves online.

Tor welcomes additional sponsors to join our [current
sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en); such as the Broadcasting Board of
Governors, the NLnet Foundation, and hundreds of individual donors. While
existing funders are enough to get the items on the roadmap started, an
additional $1 million over the next year will dramatically increase the
performance of the public Tor network.

## ABOUT THE TOR PROJECT

Based in Dedham, MA, The Tor Project develops free and open-source software
that provides online anonymity to the everyday Internet user. Tor was born out
of a collaboration with the U.S. Naval Research Lab starting in 2001, and it
became an official U.S. 501(c)(3) non-profit in 2006. The Tor Project now
works with many individuals, NGOs, law enforcement agencies, and businesses
globally to help them protect their anonymity online.

In addition to its efforts developing and maintaining the Tor anonymity
software and the Tor network, The Tor Project also helps to lead the research
community in understanding how to build and measure scalable and secure
anonymity networks. The Tor developers publish several new research papers
each year in major academic security conferences, and just about every major
security conference these days includes a Tor-related paper. Tor is a project-
funded organization with eight full-time staff.

The "Onion Logo" and "Tor" wordmark are registered trademarks of The Tor
Project, Inc.

Contact: Andrew Lewman

Tel: +1-781-948-1982

Email: execdir@torproject.org

[Website: Tor Project](https://www.torproject.org/)

  * [Tor Media and Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Tor Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org/)
  * [Tor Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/)

## Press Contact

**Tor Press Team**  
press at torproject dot org  

  

**Please Note:** If you need technical help with Tor, please use one of our
[support options](../about/contact.html.en#support). This address is for press
inquiries only.

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

