# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Press » ](../press/press.html.en) [The Tor
Project releases circumvention tool article](../press/2010-09-16-ten-things-
circumvention-tools.html.en)

## FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

## **TOR PROJECT RELEASES CIRCUMVENTION TOOL ARTICLE**

**WALPOLE, MA** The Tor Project releases an article about the ["Ten Things to
Look for in a Circumvention Tool"](../press/presskit/2010-09-16-circumvention-
features.pdf). As more countries crack down on Internet use, people around the
world are turning to anti-censorship software that lets them reach blocked
websites. Many types of software, also known as circumvention tools, have been
created to answer the threat to freedom online. These tools provide different
features and levels of security, and it's important for users to understand
the tradeoffs.

This article lays out ten features you should consider when evaluating a
circumvention tool. The goal isn't to advocate for any specific tool, but to
point out what kind of tools are useful for different situations.

Tor's tools and technologies are already used by millions of people to protect
their activities online. These users include journalists and human rights
workers in politically rigid countries communicating with whistleblowers and
dissidents. Law enforcement officers on Internet sting operations stay
anonymous with Tor, as do people wanting to post socially sensitive
information in chat rooms, like rape or abuse survivors and those with
illnesses. The Tor network also provides protection for people looking for
another layer of privacy from the millions of websites and ISPs bent on
collecting private information and tracking their moves online.

## ABOUT THE TOR PROJECT

Based in Walpole, MA, The Tor Project develops free and open-source software
that provides online anonymity to the everyday Internet user. Tor was born out
of a collaboration with the U.S. Naval Research Lab starting in 2001, and it
became an official U.S. 501(c)(3) non-profit in 2006. The Tor Project now
works with many individuals, NGOs, law enforcement agencies, and businesses
globally to help them protect their anonymity online.

In addition to its efforts developing and maintaining the Tor anonymity
software and the Tor network, The Tor Project also helps to lead the research
community in understanding how to build and measure scalable and secure
anonymity networks. The Tor developers publish several new research papers
each year in major academic security conferences, and just about every major
security conference these days includes a Tor-related paper. Tor is a project-
funded organization with a staff of 15.

The "Onion Logo" and "Tor" wordmark are registered trademarks of The Tor
Project, Inc.

Contact: Andrew Lewman

Tel: +1-781-948-1982

Email: execdir@torproject.org

[Website: Tor Project](https://www.torproject.org/)

###

  * [Tor Media and Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Tor Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org/)
  * [Tor Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/)

## Press Contact

**Tor Press Team**  
press at torproject dot org  

  

**Please Note:** If you need technical help with Tor, please use one of our
[support options](../about/contact.html.en#support). This address is for press
inquiries only.

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

