# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Press » ](../press/press.html.en) [Tor Project
And Printfection Announce the Tor Store](../press/2010-03-25-tor-store-press-
release.html.en)

## FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

## **TOR PROJECT AND PRINTFECTION ANNOUNCE THE TOR STORE**

**WALPOLE, MA** The Tor Project and Printfection launch [The Tor
Store](http://printfection.com/torprojectstore) for all your Tor fan needs.
The Tor Store offers a range of t-shirts for men and women, mugs, and
sweatshirts emblazed with everyones favorite techno-onion logo. Community
feedback shapes the product selection. This first release of the store
contains some of the most requested Tor-logo enabled items.

> "The Tor Project is leveraging Printfection's on-demand merchandise
fulfillment technology to engage their supporters and generate additional
revenue to help protect anonymity online. We're proud to be associated with
such an important project."

\-- Casey Shorr, CEO of Printfection

Tor's tools and technologies are already used by millions of people to protect
their activities online. These users include journalists and human rights
workers in politically rigid countries communicating with whistleblowers and
dissidents. Law enforcement officers on Internet sting operations stay
anonymous with Tor, as do people wanting to post socially sensitive
information in chat rooms, like rape or abuse survivors and those with
illnesses. The Tor network also provides protection for people looking for
another layer of privacy from the millions of websites and ISPs bent on
collecting private information and tracking their moves online.

Tor welcomes your support through purchasing of Tor branded items and through
the consistent donations of thousands of individuals through our [various
methods of donation](../donate/donate.html.en).

## ABOUT THE TOR PROJECT

Based in Walpole, MA, The Tor Project develops free and open-source software
that provides online anonymity to the everyday Internet user. Tor was born out
of a collaboration with the U.S. Naval Research Lab starting in 2001, and it
became an official U.S. 501(c)(3) non-profit in 2006. The Tor Project now
works with many individuals, NGOs, law enforcement agencies, and businesses
globally to help them protect their anonymity online.

In addition to its efforts developing and maintaining the Tor anonymity
software and the Tor network, The Tor Project also helps to lead the research
community in understanding how to build and measure scalable and secure
anonymity networks. The Tor developers publish several new research papers
each year in major academic security conferences, and just about every major
security conference these days includes a Tor-related paper. Tor is a project-
funded organization with eight full-time staff.

## ABOUT PRINTFECTION

Printfection is the leading all-in-one merchandise fulfillment service. Tens
of thousands of businesses use our technologies and services to power their
merchandising programs. We make it easy for any sized organization to sell
t-shirts, mugs, totes, and other promotional merchandise online. Launched in
2004, Printfection now hosts over 20,000 online merchandise stores fulfilling
orders from three locations nationwide. The company is based in Denver,
Colorado. Learn more about Printfection at www.Printfection.com.

The "Onion Logo" and "Tor" wordmark are registered trademarks of The Tor
Project, Inc.

Contact: Andrew Lewman

Tel: +1-781-948-1982

Email: execdir@torproject.org

[Website: Tor Project](https://www.torproject.org/)

  * [Tor Media and Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Tor Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org/)
  * [Tor Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/)

## Press Contact

**Tor Press Team**  
press at torproject dot org  

  

**Please Note:** If you need technical help with Tor, please use one of our
[support options](../about/contact.html.en#support). This address is for press
inquiries only.

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

