# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Documentation » ](../docs/documentation.html.en)
[Android](../docs/android.html.en)

## Tor on Android

  

Tor is available for Android by installing our package named Orbot.

Orbot is an application that allows mobile phone users to access the web,
instant messaging and email without being monitored or blocked by their mobile
internet service provider. Orbot brings the features and functionality of Tor
to the Android mobile operating system.

Orbot contains Tor and libevent. Orbot provides a local HTTP proxy and the
standard SOCKS4A/SOCKS5 proxy interfaces into the Tor network. Orbot has the
ability to transparently torify all of the TCP traffic on your Android device
when it has the correct permissions and system libraries.

## Installing Orbot from a F-Droid repository

  

Follow [these instructions](https://guardianproject.info/2012/03/15/our-new-f-
droid-app-repository/) to install from Guardian Project's repository.

## Installing Orbot from the Android Market

  

Orbot is available [in the Android
Market](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.torproject.android).

## Installing Tor from Guardian's website manually

  

You can download the most recent version from the [Guardian Project
release](https://guardianproject.info/releases/) listing.

## Screenshots of Tor on Android

  

[ ![Android Tor off](../images/android/android-off-150x150.jpg)
](../images/android/android-off.jpg) [ ![Android Tor
bootstrapping](../images/android/android-bootstrapping-150x150.jpg)
](../images/android/android-bootstrapping.jpg) [ ![Android Tor
activated](../images/android/android-activated-150x150.jpg)
](../images/android/android-activated.jpg) [ ![Android Tor
settings](../images/android/android-settings-150x150.jpg)
](../images/android/android-settings.jpg)

## Proxy settings and configuration

  

Orbot offers three interfaces into the Tor network:

  * SOCKS 4A/5 proxy 127.0.0.1:9050
  * HTTP proxy 127.0.0.1:8118 
  * Transparent proxying (on select devices)

## Platform specific notes

  

For standard Android 1.x devices:

  * The Orweb browser available in the Android Market integrates directly with Orbot, and offers a number of other privacy-oriented features. 
  * For Instant Messsaging, try [Gibberbot](https://guardianproject.info/apps/gibber), which includes support for connecting via Tor and Off-the-Record encryption.

For Android 2.x devices:

  * You must root your device and update the firmware to an iptables-capable ROM for Orbot to transparently proxy all TCP traffic.
  * For non-modified and non-rooted phones, you'll want to manually configure HTTP or SOCKS proxy settings for specific applications.
  * If you root your device and install an iptables-capable ROM (such as [Cyanogen](http://www.cyanogenmod.com/)), Orbot can transparently proxy traffic on an app-by-app basis through Tor.
  * You can also install Firefox for Android from the market with the [Proxy Mobile Add-on](https://guardianproject.info/apps/proxymob) or install the text-only “NDBrowser” from the Android Market. Both of these solutions all routing of web access through Tor on standard, un-rooted devices.
  * For Instant Messaging, try [Gibberbot](https://guardianproject.info/apps/gibber), which includes support for connecting via Tor and Off-the-Record encryption.

## Source code access

  

All of the source code is available in the [Orbot git
repository.](https://gitweb.torproject.org/orbot.git).

Note that this might not always give you the latest stable Tor version.
Additionally, the Android web browser does not have Torbutton. This means that
while it may be useful for circumvention, it probably is unsuitable for strong
web browser anonymity requirements.

* * *

If you have suggestions for improving this document, please [send them to
us](../about/contact.html.en). Thanks!

  * [Documentation Overview](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Install Tor Browser](../projects/torbrowser.html.en)
  * [Tor on Android](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/)
  * [Other Tor software](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Expert guides](../docs/installguide.html.en)
  * [Manuals](../docs/manual.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)
  * [Abuse FAQ](../docs/faq-abuse.html.en)
  * [Trademark FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en)
  * [Tor Legal FAQ](../eff/tor-legal-faq.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

