# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Documentation » ](../docs/documentation.html.en)
[Trademark FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en)

# General Statement of Trademark and Copyright

Content on this site is Copyright The Tor Project, Inc.. Reproduction of
content is permitted under a [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 United States
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/us/). All use under such
license must be accompanied by a clear and prominent attribution that
identifies The Tor Project, Inc. as the owner and originator of such content.
The Tor Project Inc. reserves the right to change licenses and permissions at
any time in its sole discretion.

The Tor® software is licensed in various ways. Learn more about the [various
licenses](../docs/faq.html.en#DistributingTor).

# Tor Trademark Frequently Asked Questions

* * *

## How can I use the name "Tor"?

The Tor Project encourages developers to use the name Tor in ways that do not
confuse the public about the source of anonymity software and services. If you
are building open-source non-commercial software or services that incorporate
or work with The Tor Project's code, you may use the name “Tor” in an accurate
description of your work. We ask you to include a link to the official Tor
website <https://www.torproject.org/> so users can verify the original source
of Tor for themselves, and a note indicating that your project is not
sponsored by The Tor Project. For example, “This product is produced
independently from the Tor® anonymity software and carries no guarantee from
The Tor Project about quality, suitability or anything else.”

## Can I use the Tor onion logo?

If you're making non-commercial use of Tor software, you may also use the Tor
onion logo (as an illustration, not as a brand for your products). Please
don't modify the design or colors of the logo. You can use items that look
like the Tor onion logo to illustrate a point (e.g. an exploded onion with
layers, for instance), so long as they're not used as logos in ways that would
confuse people.

## Can I use the word "Tor" as part of the name of my product or my domain
name?

Please don't use Tor in your product name or domain name. Instead, find a name
that will accurately identify _your_ products or services. Remember that our
goal is to make sure that people aren't confused about whether your product or
project is made or endorsed by The Tor Project. Creating a new brand that
incorporates the Tor brand is likely to lead to confusion, and commercial
confusion is a sign of trademark infringement.

## What about cute Tor-derived names in research paper titles?

Tor enjoys a vibrant [research community](https://research.torproject.org/)
that examines anonymity attacks and defenses, design improvements, impact on
society, and so on. We think it's great that professors and other researchers
continue to contribute to our community, and we've even gotten funding from
the National Science Foundation to help keep the Tor design and code
researcher-friendly. The [anonymity
bibliography](http://freehaven.net/anonbib/) lists many research papers that
use Tor-derived names in their titles: Torsk, DefenestraTor, Tortoise, LASTor,
Torchestra, StegoTorus, and more.

Since the authors of these research papers aren't trying to make a profit from
them, and (because they're just papers, not products) the papers aren't
confusing Tor users into running potentially unsafe software, we believe that
the use of the Tor mark in these research paper titles is acceptable non-
trademark or fair use.

That said, if the research paper comes with software, and that software could
potentially confuse people (users or other researchers) about whether it's
written or endorsed by The Tor Project, then we're back to the above scenario.

## Does this mean you're enforcing trademark rights?

The Tor Project is a non-profit corporation organized to research and develop
the Tor anonymity software and network. We don't want to be trademark bullies,
but we will use trademark to protect the public's ability to recognize Tor
Project software. Trademark law helps us to assure that the name is used only
in connection with genuine Tor anonymity software and for accurate description
of software and services. After all, to protect their anonymity securely,
computer users must be able to identify the software they are using, so they
can account properly for its strengths and weaknesses. Tor has become well-
known as a software package and associated network of onion-routing
anonymizing proxies, with online documentation, instructions for strengthening
anonymity protection, and warnings that even at this stage it remains
experimental software. We work with developers to improve the software and
network and actively encourage researchers to document attacks to help us
strengthen its anonymity protection further. We distribute the software itself
freely, but require correct attribution.

We hold two trademarks in the United States:

  * Tor Onion Logo, U.S. Trademark Registration No. 3,465,433
  * Tor, U.S. Registration No. 3,465,432.

## What if I produce non-open source, commercial products based on Tor?

Contact us, and let's talk.

## Are there official licensees of the Tor trademarks?

Yes. A few open source, non-commercial projects are Tor trademark licensees:

  * [The Amnesic Incognito Live System](https://tails.boum.org/)
  * Vidalia

  * [Documentation Overview](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Install Tor Browser](../projects/torbrowser.html.en)
  * [Tor on Android](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/)
  * [Other Tor software](../projects/projects.html.en)
  * [Expert guides](../docs/installguide.html.en)
  * [Manuals](../docs/manual.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)
  * [Abuse FAQ](../docs/faq-abuse.html.en)
  * [Trademark FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en)
  * [Tor Legal FAQ](../eff/tor-legal-faq.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

