# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Get Involved »
](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en) [Open Positions](../getinvolved/open-
positions.html.en)

# Tor: Open Positions

* * *

Tor is currently not hiring. We are generally looking for self-motivated
individuals who are able to work independently and want to help make Tor
better.

Working on Tor is rewarding because:

  * You can work your own hours in your own locations. As long as you get the job done, we don't care about the process.
  * We only write free (open source) software. The tools you make won't be locked down or rot on a shelf.
  * You will work with a world-class team of anonymity experts and developers on what is already the largest and most active strong anonymity network ever.

We want you to have good communication and writing skills (in particular, you
should know how to keep other project members informed of your progress), and
we want you to know how to figure out what needs doing and then take the
initiative to do it. Most project members play more than one role, so
combination developer/activists are very welcome.

The best way to get noticed as a good developer is to join the community and
start helping out. Smart code commits and ideas are welcome anytime. We have a
great core group of developers working on the Tor software itself as well as
supporting software like Torbutton, etc. All of our contractors came through
volunteering first.

Periodically we get new funding to work on more development projects. Your
goal should be to get into the list of [core project
members](../about/corepeople.html.en) so we think of you when new funding
arrives.

  * [Get Involved](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Set up relays](../getinvolved/relays.html.en)
  * [Research](https://research.torproject.org/)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

