# [Tor](../index.html.en)

  * [Home](../index.html.en)
  * [About Tor](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Documentation](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Press](../press/press.html.en)
  * [Blog](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.torproject.org)
  * [Contact](../about/contact.html.en)

  * [Download](../download/download-easy.html.en)
  * [Volunteer](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate-button.html.en)

[Home » ](../index.html.en) [Get Involved »
](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en) [Translation
Overview](../getinvolved/translation-overview.html.en)

# Tor: Translation Overview

* * *

All translation projects can be found at
<https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/torproject/>.

The Tor bundles include several different programs, all of which need
translation help. In order of importance they are:
[Torbutton](../docs/torbutton/index.html.en), and
[TorCheck](https://check.torproject.org/). You can also help translate
Torbutton, [Orbot](../docs/android.html.en), and
[GetTor](../projects/gettor.html.en).

Please read the sections below and help out. If you need help, please ask;
we're always happy to lend a hand.

## Using Transifex

* * *

[Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/) is a website that lets users
contribute translations online using their web browser. A project may have
many files that can be translated. In transifex, these files are called
resources. Transifex lists all sentences or phrases (called "strings") used by
a particular resource, and allows interested volunteers to translate
individual sentences or phrases as they are able.

You can check the status of all translations for a given resource by visiting
each resource page. All statuses are updated in real time when new
translations are added.

To get started with Transifex, you need to sign up for an account. Visit the
[account registration page](https://www.transifex.com/signup/) to get started.
Be sure to enter a proper email address and a strong password. Once that's
done, click on the resource you wish to translate, choose your language and
click the "Translate Now" button. Transifex will allow you to lock a
translation to notify others that you are working on it. You can also download
the po file, translate it offline and upload it when you are finished.

Transifex supports automatic translations using the Google Translate API
(which currently supports 50-something languages). If the language you are
working on is supported by the Google Translate API, you will see a yellow
lightning bolt on the left side of the text field (on mouseover).

If you're able, please translate the strings you see and click the 'Save All'
button at the bottom of the page. If you're unsure, click the 'Suggestions'
button (visible when you move the mouse over the text area). Feel free to
leave comments for any of the translations if you feel it's important to
clarify anything.

For more advanced users who like to translate without a web browser, you can
also download the .po file directly. You'll find this option after clicking on
a resource name and a language. If this option fits your working habits, by
all means, please use it! You may find a program called
[Poedit](http://www.poedit.net/) to make the job easier, especially for right-
to-left languages that don't work as well in text editors. If you're using
Poedit, you should disable compiling .mo files in Poedit's preferences (File
-> Preferences -> Editor -> Behavior, uncheck "Automatically compile .mo file
on save"). When you're finished translating the .po file, you can upload it by
clicking on the resource name of the file you translated, choosing your
language and clicking on "Upload file" button.

  * [Get Involved](../getinvolved/volunteer.html.en)
  * [Set up relays](../getinvolved/relays.html.en)
  * [Research](https://research.torproject.org/)
  * [Donate](../donate/donate.html.en)

## Tor Tip

Tor is written for and supported by people like you. [Donate
today](../donate/donate.html.en)!

![Tor](../images/onion.jpg)

Trademark, copyright notices, and rules for use by third parties can be found
[in our FAQ](../docs/trademark-faq.html.en).

We offer an [onion service](https://www.torproject.org/docs/hidden-services)
for this site: [expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/](http://expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion/).  
See <https://onion.torproject.org> for all torproject.org onion addresses.

#### About Tor

  * [What Tor Does](../about/overview.html.en)
  * [Users of Tor](../about/torusers.html.en)
  * [Core Tor People](../about/corepeople.html.en)
  * [Sponsors](../about/sponsors.html.en)
  * [Contact Us](../about/contact.html.en)

#### Get Involved

  * [Donate](../donate/donate-foot.html.en)
  * [Mailing Lists](../docs/documentation.html.en#MailingLists)
  * [Onion Services](../docs/onion-services.html.en)
  * [Translations](../getinvolved/translation.html.en)

#### Documentation

  * [Manuals](../docs/tor-manual.html.en)
  * [Installation Guides](../docs/documentation.html.en)
  * [Tor Wiki](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/)
  * [General Tor FAQ](../docs/faq.html.en)

[![Internet Defense League](../images/InternetDefenseLeague-footer-
badge.png)](https://internetdefenseleague.org/)

